# Personal Autoethnographic Reflection

By: Jordan Miller

The smartest people are not the experts who know every little thing about one topic; they are the people whose brains are like sponges, constantly learning and growing from every lesson life throws at them.

Being an intelligent person has always been a quality that I have taken a lot of pride in. Growing up, I took comfort in recognizing that I was, in fact, a smart person and, in turn, capable of pursuing my goals and dreams. I distinctly remember a conversation I had with my father during my sophomore year of high school. I was working hard, and the hard work I was putting in was being recognized in school and in my extracurriculars. My father told me that because I was such a smart and hard-working person that there were no closed doors for me. He exclaimed, "The sky is the limit for you, and your options are limitless. You can truly do whatever you want with your life." This conversation made me realize how much I valued the ability to pursue whatever I found interesting or challenging. I began to recognize that some of my classmates and even some of my friends would not have the freedom to pursue the things that they truly wanted in life because they were limiting themselves by not learning.

When I think about what it means to be intelligent, I don't think about being good at school; I think about being a completely well-rounded individual. I believe there are countless kinds of intelligence; however, for simplicity, I have identified four categories. These are technical, social, creative, and flexible intelligence. A technically intelligent person understands a specific subject matter and has a set of associated technical skills. For example, engineers are very technically intelligent because they possess industry-specific skills like CAD, coding, drafting, etc. A socially intelligent person knows how to build relationships and communicate with others. A popular student knows how to build friendships and cultivate relationships with those around them. A creatively intelligent person can think outside the box. A creative researcher may use a completely new approach to find a cure for a disease that no one has ever considered before. A flexibly intelligent person can learn new things, likes to take risks, and thrives outside of their comfort zone. Consider a baseball player who makes necessary changes to their swing by the recommendation of a coach. Each of these categories of intelligence has been exemplified to me by different people in my life. Those that I find to be the most intelligent (often those I look up to the most) are strong in all four of these categories. My mother has been a huge influence in my life as she exemplifies all four of these categories. She works in the pharmaceutical field, providing cutting-edge blood cancer treatment research. Additionally, she is a great professional mentor and friend, an avid DIYer, and she still claims that she still "does not know what she wants to be when she grows up." These aspects highlight her intelligence in all four categories. Growing up learning from her has had a huge impact on my life. I envy her ability to be so talented at her job, yet so free in her ambition. My goal is to make myself a well-rounded, intelligent person like her. As an engineering student, I am currently growing my technical knowledge while balancing being a social individual. One of my goals for this year at the university is to build better friendships and relationships with my peers while balancing the workload of my classes. I love finding creative solutions to problems, and I love trying new things. If there is one area I need to work on, it is definitely my creative intelligence. I would like to see myself embrace more creativity in my day-to-day life.

The experience that has taught me the most about intelligence has been my time here at the university. Our campus is a melting pot of different people who have very different kinds of intelligence. There are thousands of incredibly smart students everywhere you look. Depending on who you interact with, different types of intelligence become apparent. For example, the difference between how intelligence is displayed in my aerospace engineering classes and in my leadership classes is dramatic. Students in both classes display a high level of technical intelligence; however, there is a huge disparity in social intelligence in the engineering classes. This perspective has made me realize that it is far more important to be well-rounded with a little bit of technical intelligence and a little bit of social intelligence than it is to have incredibly high technical intelligence while lacking the social. Smart people are complex and are always learning. They work hard and apply all aspects of their intelligent mind. This is my goal - to become a well-rounded, smart person who seeks lessons in every experience.
